PascalCase - a succession of words concatenated without any characters between them, where every word is starting with a capital letter.
CIL 	- Compiled Intermediate Language
CLR 	- Common Language Runtime - Converts CIL to machine instructions.
DLL	- Dynamic Link Library - A DLL is a library that contains code and data that can be used by more than one program at the same time. Is a Compiled library
FCL	- Framework Class Library
SQL	- Structured Query Language
Escape sequences - Character combinations consisting of a backslash (\) followed by a letter or by a combination of digits
@ prefix to string - @ tells the compiler to ignore escape sequences in the string making it a verbatim string
Ternary operator - starts with a boolean condition. If this condition evaluates to true then it will execute the first statement after ?, 
	otherwise the second statement after : will be executed. It is the short form of if else.
Var type - means that the variable type is determined by the compiler (no performance penalty/syntactic sugar)
Implicit type casting - automatic conversion of a value of a data type to value of another data type without data loss.
Explicit type casting - manual conversion of a value of one data type to a value of another data type. Usually there is data loss. (type) to convert.
Method overloading - means that a method can be delcared with different combinations of parameters. The compiler will choose the method based on the parameters used.
Variable no of Params - A method can take variable number of parameters by using the keyword params.
Jagged arrays - A jagged array is an array of arrays where each array can have a different size.
Hash	- The process of mapping a key to a position in a table is called hashing
Empty array returned by method - When a given method has to return an empty array will return an array with 0 elements instead of null.
??= 	- assigns value of the right operand only if the left operand is null
Middleware - is software that's assembled into an app pipeline to handle requests and responses.
New - When creating an instance of an object. You can also use the new keyword as a generic type constraint.
	You can mark a method with new in a derived class when you want to hide the implementation from the base class.	
Where	- Where clause in a generic definition specifies constraints on the types that are used as arguments for type parameters in a generic type, method, delegate, 
	or local function. Constraints can specify interfaces, base classes, or classes that should have a public parameterless constructor, or require a generic 
	type to be a reference, value, or unmanaged type.
Delegates - are typed references to functions
Class	- A class is a user-defined blueprint or prototype from which objects are created. Basically, a class combines the atributes (properties, fields) and 
	behavior (methods, operations) into a single unit.
The default access modifier of a class is internal.
Object - an instance of a class that is created dynamically
Singleton class - Is a class that has a single instance. In order to prevent multiple instances the singleton class has a private constructor.
Abstract Class - Use the abstract modifier in a class declaration to indicate that a class is intended only to be a base class of other classes. 
	An abstract class has methods that are not implemented, and that derived class will implement. Abstract classes cannot be instantiated.
	A class needs to be declared abstract in order to have abstract members.
	Not all methods of an abstract class needs to be abstract.
	Abstract class can have constructors.
Abstract methods - are methods that are not implemented and that the derived class extending this class will implement. 
	Implementation of an abstract method is done using the override keyword.
Sealed Class - Is a class that cannot be inherited by any class but can be instantiated. The design intent of a sealed class is to indicate that 
	the class is specialized and there is no need to extend it to provide any additional functionality through inheritance to override its behavior.
Static Class - can only contain static data members including static methods, static constructors, and static properties
	Static classes cannot be instantiated
	A normal non static class can contain static members.
	You can have static properties, fields, methods and constructors in a class.
Partial class - It provides a special ability to implement the functionality of a single class into multiple files and all these files are combined into 
	a single class file when the application is compiled
Enum 	- (also called enumeration) is a user-defined value type used to represent a list of named integer constants. In case no values are specified the list 
	is indexed from 0 upwards.
Extension methods - enable you to "add" methods to existing types without creating a new derived type, recompiling, or otherwise modifying the original type
This - in extension methods - extension method is a static method of a static class, where the "this" modifier is applied to the first parameter.
This - is used to refer to the current instance of the class 
This - This keyword is used to call another constructor from a constructor in the same class (public Dog() : this(9, "[no name]"))
Static method - A static method in C# is a method that keeps only one copy of the method at the Type level, not the object level. That means, all 
	instances of the class share the same copy of the method and its data. Static methods can only access static fields/properties.
Static class - A static class contains only static members, cannot be instantiated , is sealed and cannot contain instance constructors.
Static constructor - Is called automatically to initialize the class before the first instance is created or any static members are referenced.
	Static constructors are not inherited.
Override - modifier is required to extend or modify the abstract or virtual implementation of an inherited method, property, indexer, or event.
Access Modifiers in a class - public, protected, internal, private, protected internal
	Public - you have access to public members from outside the class
	Protected - you have access to protected members from within the class or within the inherited class
	Private - you have acccess to private members only from within the class
	Internal - the access is limited to the assembly in which it is declared
	Protected internal - is used to specify that access is limited to the current assembly or types derived from the containing class
Default access modifier of a class - private
Interfaces - Like a class, Interface can have methods, properties, events, and indexers as its members. But interfaces will contain only the 
	declaration of the members. The implementation of the interface's members will be given by class who implements the interface 
Interfaces - don't contain fields because fields represent a specific implementation of data representation, and exposing them would break encapsulation.
Interfaces - defines a contract. Any class or struct that implements that contract must provide an implementation of the members defined in the interface
Interfaces - all members of an interface are public
Interfaces - contains definitions for a group of related functionalities that a non-abstract class or a struct must implement
Interfaces - C# allows the user to inherit one interface into another interface.
Interfaces - cannot be instantiated.
Fields - are used to store data that must be accessible to multiple methods of a class and available throughout the lifetime of an object.
Properties - Property in C# is a member of a class that provides a flexible mechanism for classes to expose private fields. This can be done with the use of accessors.
	Properties can be used to model/validate, formatting, computation, calculation of data that reach the private fields.
	Helps with encapsulation. 
Automatic Properties - you do not have to define the field for the property, and you only have to write get; and set; inside the property.
Read-Write Property - standard property where you can read or write a value for that property
Read-Only Property. - read only proerties can only be read, and therefore they only have getter accessor. A value can be set in the constructor. Another way to define 
	a readonly property is to restrict access to setter accessor by making it private.
Static Property. - A static Property can be used to access only the static members of the class.
Indexer Property - An indexer is a special type of property that allows a class or a structure to be accessed like an array for its internal collection.
Using 	- is used to import namespaces at the top of a code file, that will be used within the code
	- is used to to specify a block of code (used also for try finally) where the specified class that is instantiated and that implements IDisposable 
	interface will be disposed of at the end of the block of code.
Encapsulation - is the packing of "data" and "functions operating on that data" into a single component and restricting the access to some of the object's components.
	- Encapsulation solves the member access problem in the implementation level.
	- Encapsulation is the mechanism by which the abstraction is implemented.
Abstraction - Abstraction is the method of hiding the unwanted information.
	- Abstraction solves the member access problem in the design level
	- Abstraction is a process. It is the act of identifying the relevant qualities and behaviors an object should possess.
Polymorphism - Polymorphism means "many forms", and it occurs when we have many classes that are related to each other by inheritance and we povide 
	different functionality by using the override directive.
Polymorphism - Can be static or dynamic. Static is achieved by method overloading, which means compile time polymorphism. Dynamic/Runtime Polymorphism 
	can be achieved by method overriding.
Inheritance - is a process in which one object acquires all the properties and behaviors of its parent object automatically.
Const vs Readonly - ReadOnly is a runtime constant. Const is a compile time constant. 
	The value of the const field can not be changed. The value of a readonly field can be changed at declaration or in the constructor of that class.
Immutable strings - strings are imutable because their size cannot be modified. In order to modify the size of a string a new string is allocated by the compiler.
	In order to use a string that has the option to modify their size use stringbuilder instead.
Immutable strings - why - imutable arrays are thread safe. Allows for compiler optimisations. They also provide size optimisation. Is safe to use them as method params.
Method signature - is a unique identification of a method for the C# compiler. The signature consists of the method name and the parameters. 
	Method signature does not include the return type.
Constructor - is a special method of the class which gets automatically invoked whenever an instance of the class is created.
	Is used to initialize the private fields of the class. It has no return type but the same name as the class.
	if we don't specify a constructor the compiler generates a parameterless one for us.
	A derived class when instantiated will always implicitly call the base class default constructor.
	Constructors are not inherited and need to be explicitly defined in derived class
Casting - there are 2 types of casting in c#
	Upcasting = implicit casting, means converting a lower level/child class type to a bigger level/parent type class.
	Dwoncasting = explicit casting, means converting a bigger level/parent class type to a lower level/child type class.
Boxing 	- is the process of converting a value type to the type object or to any interface type implemented by this value type. Boxing is implicit.
Unboxing- extracts the value type from the object. Unboxing is explicit.
Nullable- a nullable Type is a data type is that contain the defined data type or the null value
Nullable value types are value type variables marked with ? mark, in order to allow them to have the null value.
Nullable data types are reference value variables or value type variables marked with ? mark.
Objects and string types have a default value of null
Default value of an int is 0
Default value of a float is 0.0
Default value of a decimal is 0.0M
Default value of bool is false.
Stack vs Queue	- The Queue class tracks objects on FIFO basis, while the Stack class tracks objects on LIFO basis.
Custom Exceptions - define and use custom exceptions if you're building a library or framework, and you want consumers of that library to react to 
	exceptions from the library differently than they would do for built-in exception types.
Contract preconditions and input validation have similar but still different purpose. While input validation ensures that your system is protected from 
	the outside world, contract preconditions guard your code inside of your system and help you quickly locate and fix bugs in it.
Exception properties - includes a number of properties that help identify the code location, the type, the help file, and the reason for the exception. 
	The list of properties is: StackTrace, InnerException, Message, HelpLink, HResult, Source, TargetSite, and Data
Object class - is the base class for all the classes in . Net Framework
Assembly - is a collection of types and resources that are built to work together and form a logical unit of functionality. Assemblies take the form 
	of executable (.exe) or dynamic link library (. dll) files, and are the building blocks of . NET applications
Namespace - keyword is used to declare a scope that contains a set of related objects. You can use a namespace to organize code elements and to 
	create globally unique types
Multiple inheritance is not allowed in C#. The purpose behind multiple inheritance can be achieved by the implementation of multiple interfaces and only 
	one class can be inherited.
Interface Explicit Implementation - Explicit implementation is used to resolve cases where two interfaces each declare different members of the 
	same name such as a property or a method. To implement both interfaces, a class has to use explicit implementation either for the property 
	P, or the method P, or both.
Interface variable types - you are allowed to create a reference variable of an interface type or in other words, you are allowed to create an 
	interface reference variable
CRUD - stands for Create, Read, Update, Delete.
Convention over Configuration - as long as you respect the convention you don't have to make use of configururation.
MVC	- The Model-View-Controller (MVC) architectural pattern separates an application into three main components: the model, the view, and the controller.
MVC Controller - contains the flow control logic for an ASP.NET MVC application. A controller determines what response to send back to a user when a user makes 
	a browser request. A controller is written as a class
MVC Model - contains all of your application logic that is not contained in a view or a controller. The model should contain all of your application business 
	logic, validation logic, and database access logic.
Array - is a structure representing a fixed length collection of values or objects with the same type.
Structures - are value types that contain fields. Content is stored on stack memory and are transmitted by value.
Abstract class vs Interface 
	- abstract class can have members implemented
	- abstract class can have different access modifiers for their members while interfaces have only public access modifiers.
	- a class can inherit a single abstract class while a class can implement multiple interfaces.
	- an abstract class can contain constructor while an interface cannot contain constructor.
	- an abstract class can contain fields while an interface cannot contain fields.
Value Data Type - short, int, char, float, double
Reference Data Type - String, Class, Object and Interface
Pointer Data Type - Pointers
Literal	- is a source code representation of a value, that is hard-coded directly into the source code
Dependency injection - A dependency is an object that another object depends on. Dependency Injection is basically having the platform providing the 
	dependency objects that an object needs, instead of having the object constructing them by itself.
Dependency Inversion - The Dependency Inversion Principle (DIP) states that a high-level class must not depend upon a lower level class. 
	They must both depend upon abstractions. The way we can achieve dependency inversion is by using dependency injection.
SOLID Principles - 
	Single Responsibility Principle (SRP) - A class should have one, and only one, reason to change. In other words a class should handle a single thing.
	Open Closed Principle (OCP)	      - Software entities (classes, modules, functions, etc.) should be open for extension, but closed for modification.
	Liskov Substitution Principle (LSP)   - The principle defines that objects of a superclass shall be replaceable with objects of its subclasses without 
						breaking the application. That requires the objects of your subclasses to behave in the same way as the objects 
						of your superclass.
	Interface Segregation Principle (ISP) - Clients should not be forced to depend upon interfaces that they do not use. In order to achieve this is best to 
						use multiple smaller interfaces instead of a bigger one that is not entirely used.
	Dependency Inversion Principle (DIP)  - The Dependency Inversion Principle (DIP) states that a high-level class must not depend upon a lower 
						level class. They must both depend upon abstractions. And, secondly, an abstraction must not depend 
						upon details, but the details must depend upon abstractions.
Unit testing - The three sections of unit testing are arrange, act and assert.
Unit testing vs Integration testing - Unit testing is a testing method by which individual units of source code are tested in isolation to determine if they are ready to use, 
	whereas Integration testing checks integration between software modules.
Moq - Library which can be used in unit testing to provide a result for certain methods called from the unit that is up for testing.
	The idea is to create a concrete implementation of an interface and control how certain methods on that interface responds when called. 
	Is a process used in unit testing when the unit being tested has external dependencies. 
	Mocking means to provide dummy/hardcoded values to dependencies so that the code can be tested in isolation.
Value type vs Reference type variables - A data type is a value type if it holds a data value within its own memory space.
	A value type variable is hold in stack memory.
	Value type variables in C# are: bool,byte,char,decimal,double,enum,float,int,long,sbyte,short,struct,uint,ulong,ushort
	When you pass a value-type variable from one method to another, the system creates a separate copy of a variable
	Unlike value types, a reference type doesn't store its value directly. Instead, it stores the address where the value is being stored.
	The reference type variables are stored in HEAP.
	Reference type variables in C#: String ,Arrays (even if their elements are value types),Class,Delegate
	When you pass a reference type variable from one method to another, it doesn't create a new copy; instead, it passes the variable's address.
IQueryable vs IEnumerable - The major difference between IQueryable and IEnumerable is that IQueryable adds filters to the query and executes the query only when 
	ToList() is called whereas IEnumerable will bring all data and filter it afterwards. This means both memory and speed optimization.
A finally block always executes, regardless of whether an exception is thrown.
When catching exceptions, we should always catch more particular exceptions and more general exceptions afterwards.
Async - methods marked with async contain methods that will force the entire method to be executed asyncronuously.
Await - when the compiler finds await will move curent method to be executed in another thread, asyncronuously, while curent thread will continue to execute 
	code from after the call to the async method.
List vs Dictionary - The Dictionary map a key to a value and cannot have duplicate keys, whereas a list just contains a collection of values.
Composite formatting: Console.WriteLine("Hello, {0}! Today is {1}, it's {2:HH:mm} now.", name, date.DayOfWeek, date);
String interpolation: Console.WriteLine($"Hello, {name}! Today is {date.DayOfWeek}, it's {date:HH:mm} now.");
Dependency 	- class Foo{ fooMethod(Bar bar){} }	- Bar object is called as a parameter to a method.
Association 	- class Foo{ private Bar bar; }		- Bar object is declared as a "Has a" relationship with the class.
Composition	- class Foo{ private Bar bar=new Bar(); } //when foo dies so does bar. Instantiation is done at Bar field declaration.
Aggregation	- class Foo{ private List<Bar> bars; }    //when Foo dies Bar live on. Similar to association but for list of objects.
Exceptions - User defined exceptions should inherit from System.ApplicationException
LINQ	- language integrated query
Anonymous Method - is a method which doesn’t contain any name. It is useful when the user wants to create an inline method and also wants to pass parameter 
	in the anonymous method like other methods. An Anonymous method is defined using the delegate keyword and the user can assign this method to a 
	variable of the delegate type.
Lambda expressions - in C# are used like anonymous functions, with the difference that in Lambda expressions you don’t need to specify the type of the value 
	that you input thus making it more flexible to use. The Lambda expression is divided into two parts, the left side is the input and the right is the expression.
	The left side specifies the parameter that iterates the objects that the lambda function is applied to, while the right side is the method return expression that is
	based on the input value.

URI	- A Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) is a unique sequence of characters that identifies a logical or 
	physical resource used by web technologies.
URL	- URL stands for Uniform Resource Locator. A URL is nothing more than the address of a given unique resource on the Web
http://www.w3schools.com  /html/html_page.html?key=value&key2=value2#anchor
scheme|machine/domain name|path               |query string         |fragment to scroll
Cookies - Cookies are small files that are created on the client’s hard drive so that the website that created them can retrieve them at a later time. 
	(or, if they’re temporary cookies then they are stored in the web browser’s memory). 
	When users return to a website, a cookie provides information and allows the site to display selected settings and targeted content.
	Cookies can store a wide range of information, including personally identifiable information (such as your name, home address, 
	email address, or telephone number). Cookies are a poor choice for complex or private information or large amounts of data.
HTTP Request - is divided into three parts: Request Verb, header and body.
HTTP Response - is also divided into three parts: Status Code, header and body.
Query String - is a part of a uniform resource locator (URL) that assigns values to specified parameters. The keys-values pairs are specified after the ? in the URL.
HTTP Request Verbs - GET,HEAD,POST,PUT,DELETE,CONNECT,OPTIONS,TRACE,PATCH
Front end = Web Browser
Back end  = Web Server + Database Server

STATUS CODES
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status
1xx - informational
2xx - success
	200 OK
	201 Created
	204 No Content
3xx - Redirect
	307 - Temporary redirect
	301 - Moved permanently
4xx - Client Error
	400 - Bad request
	401 - Unauthorized
	403 - Forbidden
	404 - Not Found
	405 - Method not allowed
	406 - Not Acceptable
	409 - Conflict
	415 - Unsupported media type
5xx	- Server error
	500 - Internal server error
	502 - Bad gateway
HTTP - Hyper Text Transpher Protocol - Protocol is a convention between entities regarding comunication/data transfer
HTTPS - HTTP SECURED. The information is encrypted using a certificate from the server. Information is harder to be stolen.
3 Layers arhitecture
- Presentation Layer  = made of buttons, colors, text, fonts, images, the visual part that the user is interracting with
	- is the visual part(dummy) that is interactive
	- written in: HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT
	- is the front-end of an app
- Business layer-
	- represented by a webserver (backend)
	- can be written in .NET, Java, Nod.js, Python, 
	- is the brain of the app - controls everything (what is saved in the database, what is displayed to the user, has business rules)
- Data Layer
	- database server- storage and data retrieval
Cache - stores data in the client's browser in order to increase perceived performance. Used for static resources, (images, js, css files, fonts)
WEB Service - is a web app without presentation layer, no buttons, colors, layout, just data
JSON - javascript object notation
Serialize - transform from object to text/json for data transfer over the network or for later use
Deserialize - transform from text/json to object
Soap Services - old style of exposing data. All requests were made with the POST verb. The request was called soap envelope. 
	XML was usually the data format used to respond
REST Services - Representational State Transfer. Everything is treated as a resource. Leverages everything on http: Verbs,bodies, response, status codes.
ORM - object relational mapping. Is a technique for converting data between C# objects and relational databases
Entity Framework (EF) is the standard ORM framework for .NET. Maps relational database to C# object models.
Entity Framework Fluent API is used to configure domain classes to override conventions.
Accept vs Content Type - Accept header is used by HTTP clients to tell the server which type of content they expect/prefer as response. Content-type 
	can be used both by clients and servers to identify the format of the data in their request (client) or response (server) and, therefore, 
	help the other part interpret correctly the information.
